Linux virtualization:
Building a Linux working environment
2.1 What is virtualization?
	Hypervisors
	Containers
	Design considerations
2.2 Working with VirtualBox
	2.2.1 Working with Linux package managers
	The manager (APT),which comes installed with Linux by default, has a number of jobs:
		- Maintains a local index to track repositories and their contents
		- Tracks the status of all the software that’s installed on your local machine
		- Ensures that all available updates are applied to installed software
		- Ensures that software dependencies (other software packages or configuration
		parameters required by the package you’re installing) are met for new applica-
		tions before they’re installed
		- Handles installing and removing software packages
	WORKING WITH THE DEBIAN PACKAGE MANAGER
		Once you download the file, you can install it from the command line using dpkg .
		Use the -i flag (for install)
			$ cd /home/<username>/Downloads
			# dpkg -i skypeforlinux-64.deb
		You can check for yourself by running arch from the command line
	INSTALLING VIRTUAL BOX FOR THE RPM PACKAGE MANAGER
		Steps to install VirtualBox on Fedora
			Add repo wget http://download.virtualbox.org/virtualbox/rpm/fedora/virtualbox.repo
			Update index dnf update
			Install dependencies dnf install patch kernel-devel dkms
			Install package dnf install VirtualBox-5.1
			$ cd /etc/yum.repos.d/
			# wget http://download.virtualbox.org/virtualbox/rpm/fedora/virtualbox.repo
	Installing software on Linux
	
	2.2.2 Defining a virtual machine (VM)
	
	2.2.3 Installing an operating system (OS)
		1. Download a file (in ISO format) containing the image of the Linux distribution
		you want to use.
		2. Boot the new VM using a virtual DVD drive containing the ISO you downloaded.
		3. Work through the standard OS installation process.
		4. Boot the VM and launch the OS you installed previously
	2.2.4 Cloning and sharing a VirtualBox VM
		CLONING VMs FOR QUICK STARTS
		MANAGING VMs FROM THE COMMAND LINE
2.3 Working with Linux containers (LXC)
	2.3.1 Getting started with LXC
	2.3.2 Creating your first container
		You’ll want to change that password right away:
			$ passwd
			Changing password for ubuntu.
			(current) UNIX password:
			Enter new UNIX password:
			Retype new UNIX password:
			passwd: password updated successfully
		Show ip:
			root@myContainer:/# ip addr
Summary
	- Hypervisors like VirtualBox provide an environment where virtual operating
	systems can safely access hardware resources, whereas lightweight containers
	share their host’s software kernel.
	- Linux package managers like APT and RPM (Yum) oversee the installation and
	administration of software from curated online repositories using a regularly
	updated index that mirrors the state of the remote repository.
	- Getting a VM going in VirtualBox requires defining its virtual hardware envi-
	ronment, downloading an OS image, and installing the OS on your VM.
	- You can easily clone, share, and administer VirtualBox VMs from the command
	line.
	- LXC containers are built on predefined, distribution-based templates.
	- LXC data is stored within the host file system, making it easy to administer
	containers.
Key terms
	- Virtualization is the logical sharing of compute, storage, and networking
	resources among multiple processes, allowing each to run as if it was a stand-
	alone physical computer.
	- A hypervisor is software running on a host machine that exposes system
	resources to a guest layer, allowing the launching and administration of full-
	stack guest VMs.
	- A container is a VM that, instead of full-stack, lives on top of (and shares) the
	host machine’s core OS kernel. Containers are extremely easy to launch and
	kill, according to short-term need.
	- A dynamically allocated virtual drive in VirtualBox takes up only as much space on
	your physical drives as the VM actually uses. A fixed-size disk, by contrast, takes
	up the maximum space no matter how much data is there.
	- A software repository is a location where digital resources can be stored. Reposi-
	tories are particularly useful for collaboration and distribution of software
	packages.
Security best practices
	- Allowing an official package manager to install and maintain the software on
	your Linux system is preferred over doing it manually. Online repositories are
	much more secure, and downloading is properly encrypted.
	- Always scan the checksum hashes of downloaded files against the correct hash
	strings, not only because packages can be corrupted during download, but
	because they can also sometimes be switched by man-in-the-middle attackers.
Command-line review
	- apt install virtualbox uses APT to install a software package from a remote
	repository.
	- dpkg -i skypeforlinux-64.deb directly installs a downloaded Debian package
	on a Ubuntu machine.
	- wget https://example.com/document-to-download uses the wget command-
	line program to download a file.
	- dnf update , yum update , or apt update syncs the local software index with
	what’s available from online repositories.
	- shasum ubuntu-16.04.2-server-amd64.iso calculates the checksum for a
	downloaded file to confirm that it matches the provided value. This means that
	the contents haven’t been corrupted in transit.
	- vboxmanage clonevm Kali-Linux-template --name newkali uses the vboxman-
	age tool to clone an existing VM.
	- lxc-start -d -n myContainer starts an existing LXC container.
	- ip addr displays information on each of a system’s network interfaces (includ-
	ing their IP addresses).
	- exit leaves a shell session without shutting down the machine.